README.md, before:

# Creating Custom Log Levels using Log4j
* [Log4j 1.2](#log4j-v1-2)
* [Log4j 2](#log4j-v2)

**Given** there is an application

**When** the user needs to log certain statements
 
**And** those statements do not fall into default logging levels
 
**And** those statements should log at a certain level

**Then** developers needs to create custom log level for the application 

In production, typically we use the logging level of ERROR or FATAL. Now, if we want to log some other messages also, but dont want to turn on DEBUG or INFO because these default levels are used for much more logging than what we would want to see in **PRODUCTION**. This is the scenario which demands creation of a custom log level. 

# Log4j v1.2
* Create a Custom Log Level
    * [FunnyLogLevel.java](log4j12/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j12/customloglevel/FunnyLogLevel.java)
      This class defines the custom log level with the name **FUNNY**. The log level of **FUNNY** is lesser than **ERROR** log level, so when the log level is set to ERROR this log level is covered for output. This is achieved by setting the *int* value of **FUNNY** using below code. 
    
    public static final int FUNNY_INT = ERROR_INT + 10;


* [log4j.properties](log4j12/src/main/resources/log4j.properties) is set to **ERROR**

	log4j.rootLogger=ERROR, FUNNY
 
* We are ready to log it. In [FunnyLogging.java](log4j12/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j12/customloglevel/FunnyLogging.java)

  When we run the method in this class. We will see the message printed using Line#1 and Line#2 and not the Line#3.
  
        //Print the below two messages when in ERROR Log level
        logger.log(FunnyLogLevel.FUNNY, "I am a Funny log, because the Log level set is ERROR and my log level is FUNNY!!"); //Line#1
        logger.error("I am an ERROR message");                                                                               //Line#2
        
        //Do not print this in ERROR Log level
        logger.log(Level.DEBUG, "I am a DEBUG message");	                                                                 //Line#3
  
# Log4j v2
Log4j2 makes this even easier. Now, we don't need the class defining the custom log level. We can still do it, if we want other capabilities. For the simplest use case, we don't need it.

*For this example, we are using JSON as the log4j2 properties file. Same thing can be done using properties, XML, YAML files*

* Define the custom log level in [JSON log4j2 file](log4j2/src/test/resources/log4j2.json) and the log level to be **ERROR**

    ...
    "customLevels" : {
      "CustomLevel" : {
        "name": "ShowMeOnError",
        "intLevel" : "190"
      }
    },
    ...

    ...
    "loggers": {
      "logger": {
        "name": "com.mannietest.customloglevellog4j2.customloglevel",
        "level": "error",
        "appender-ref": [{"ref": "File-Appender", "level":"error"}]
      },
    ...

* Ready to log it. As done in [Logging.java](log4j2/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j2/customloglevel/Logging.java).
  
  When we run the method, we will see only **Line#4** , **Line#5** and **Line#6**.
  
        logger.debug("This is a debug message");                                              //Line#1
        logger.info("This is an info message");                                               //Line#2
        logger.warn("This is a warn message");                                                //Line#3
        
        logger.error("This is an error message");                                             //Line#4
        logger.fatal("This is a fatal message");                                              //Line#5
        
        logger.log(Level.getLevel("ShowMeOnError"), "a ShowMeOnError Custom Level message");  //Line#6  


Here we go with custom log levels using Log4j.

Commit message:

Adding output and Test class

README.md, after:

# Creating Custom Log Levels using Log4j
* [Log4j 1.2](#log4j-v1-2)
* [Log4j 2](#log4j-v2)

**Given** there is an application

**When** the user needs to log certain statements
 
**And** those statements do not fall into default logging levels
 
**And** those statements should log at a certain level

**Then** developers needs to create custom log level for the application 


In production, typically we use the logging level of ERROR or FATAL. Now, if we want to log some other messages also, but dont want to turn on DEBUG or INFO because these default levels are used for much more logging than what we would want to see in **PRODUCTION**. This is the scenario which demands creation of a custom log level. 

# Log4j v1.2
* Create a Custom Log Level
    * [FunnyLogLevel.java](log4j12/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j12/customloglevel/FunnyLogLevel.java)
      This class defines the custom log level with the name **FUNNY**. The log level of **FUNNY** is lesser than **ERROR** log level, so when the log level is set to ERROR this log level is covered for output. This is achieved by setting the *int* value of **FUNNY** using below code. 
    
    public static final int FUNNY_INT = ERROR_INT + 10;


* [log4j.properties](log4j12/src/main/resources/log4j.properties) is set to **ERROR**

	log4j.rootLogger=ERROR, FUNNY
 
* We are ready to log it. In [FunnyLogging.java](log4j12/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j12/customloglevel/FunnyLogging.java)

  When we run the method in this class. We will see the message printed using Line#1 and Line#2 and not the Line#3.
  
        //Print the below two messages when in ERROR Log level
        logger.log(FunnyLogLevel.FUNNY, "I am a Funny log, because the Log level set is ERROR and my log level is FUNNY!!"); //Line#1
        logger.error("I am an ERROR message");                                                                               //Line#2
        
        //Do not print this in ERROR Log level
        logger.log(Level.DEBUG, "I am a DEBUG message");	                                                                 //Line#3

* There is a test class [FunnyLoggingtest.java](log4j12/src/test/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j12/customloglevel/FunnyLoggingTest.java) to test this.

 
Output would look something like this:

	```
	2018-08-22 16:20:05 FUNNY FunnyLogging:13 - I am a Funny log, because the Log level set is ERROR and my log level is FUNNY!!
	2018-08-22 16:20:05 ERROR FunnyLogging:14 - I am an ERROR message
	```
  
# Log4j v2
Log4j2 makes this even easier. Now, we don't need the class defining the custom log level. We can still do it, if we want other capabilities. For the simplest use case, we don't need it.

*For this example, we are using JSON as the log4j2 properties file. Same thing can be done using properties, XML, YAML files*

* Define the custom log level in [JSON log4j2 file](log4j2/src/test/resources/log4j2.json) and the log level to be **ERROR**

    ...
    "customLevels" : {
      "CustomLevel" : {
        "name": "ShowMeOnError",
        "intLevel" : "190"
      }
    },
    ...

    ...
    "loggers": {
      "logger": {
        "name": "com.mannietest.customloglevellog4j2.customloglevel",
        "level": "error",
        "appender-ref": [{"ref": "File-Appender", "level":"error"}]
      },
    ...

* Ready to log it. As done in [Logging.java](log4j2/src/main/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j2/customloglevel/Logging.java).
  
  When we run the method, we will see only **Line#4** , **Line#5** and **Line#6**.
  
        logger.debug("This is a debug message");                                              //Line#1
        logger.info("This is an info message");                                               //Line#2
        logger.warn("This is a warn message");                                                //Line#3
        
        logger.error("This is an error message");                                             //Line#4
        logger.fatal("This is a fatal message");                                              //Line#5
        
        logger.log(Level.getLevel("ShowMeOnError"), "a ShowMeOnError Custom Level message");  //Line#6  

* There is a test class [Loggingtest.java](log4j2/src/test/java/com/mannietest/customloglevellog4j2/customloglevel/LoggingTest.java) to test this.

   Output would look something like this:
    
	```
	[ERROR] 2018-08-22 15:00:39.449 [main] Logging - This is an error message
	[FATAL] 2018-08-22 15:00:39.449 [main] Logging - This is a fatal message
	[ShowMeOnError] 2018-08-22 15:00:39.449 [main] Logging - a ShowMeOnError Custom Level message
	```

Here we go with custom log levels using Log4j.
